[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we're joined by
Gabe Frank the co-founder of arcade
which is an nft Ling platform how you
doing today Gabe good Dylan nice to be
here yeah super psyched you joined I
think that nfts have kind of came onto
like the mainstream radar in the past
couple years and there's also been
meteoric as the rise was something
similar to a fall so I kind of want to
start with like a highlevel question
anyone who's a crypto user probably
understands like FTX was bad and that
there was a bare Market that resulted
that collapse but within the web 3 space
there's a bunch of different verticals
there's like nfts and Defi and things
like this and nfts have been hit the
hardest I think out of most verticals
since the most recent Bull Run there was
that kind of article that came out that
said
95% of the 73,000 projects are worthless
so I think that somebody who's building
a platform like arcade is a long-term
thinker and probably is able to look
beyond the short-term be bust Cycles or
bull bear Cycles so to start off the
interview I'm just kind of curious to
hear what are the reasons for hope in
the nft space what has kept you and
other builders convicted in building
during this kind of negative sentiment
time frame the 95% number sounds
accurate I think it's probably more than
that that are worthless in the big
scheme of things there is a small
percentage that is still super valuable
and it's still a billion dollar market
so the assets and nfts that arcade
usually deals with are the ones that
have some staying power we still have a
lot of profile picture collections so
pfp collections like punks and board
Abes but also we deal with the assets
like Art 101 art digital art gen art
like squiggles and fenzza Tyler Hobs a
lot of that stuff has staying power and
we see those assets more like luxury
goods and it's luxury digital
collectibles on chain that are on eth
maet right now that's where most of the
high value nfts are and I think a lot of
the the 95% came onto the scene because
nfts were a new canvas and it kind of
projects and people wanted to experiment
to see what this new technology could
turn into what keeps us going is that
it's still a huge Market you know
there's probably about five to six
billion of lendable nfts with staying
power over the long run and those are
the nfts that we're dealing with cool so
yeah I mean it does seem like that there
were certain blue chips that emerged and
you can kind of see just scrolling
through arcade get a good picture of
what those are like the isuki and crypto
punks and things like this that folks
have been talking about for more than
just six months at a time so before we
delve into what arcade does and it's
kind of the umbrella of products and
services Under the nfte Umbrella you
have a really interesting story arc when
it comes to coming into the crypto and
blockchain space we both started around
the same time in
2018 but you uh went into custodial
services so you first started with bitco
and that of course was a custodial
service provider for institutions
acquired by Galaxy digital and then you
became the director of sales for curve
which is a cloud-based institutional
digital asset wallet service which was
acquired by PayPal so you kind of came
into the space focusing on what some
might call traditional crypto assets and
trying to maybe act as a bridge between
trafi and web 3 I'm curious to hear why
did you land at bitco and start on the
institutional side of custodial services
and what has as web 3 is kind of
progressed how has your career Arc kind
of mirrored that good questions thanks
for that yeah so I I got my start in
crypto in 2018 working at bitgo and I
think you know up until that point I was
working with my dad and he had a chain
of pawn shops in Texas that was started
actually by my grandpa in 1947 the first
store in downtown El Paso Texas and then
my dad expanded it to more stores
throughout the El Paso area and I worked
with him for six years after I graduated
college studied finance and then started
learning the business with my dad so I
was making loans behind the desk against
watches Electronics tools musical
instruments guns kind of anything of
value and so that's where I got my start
in lending it's like in my blood right
and then you know so my dad sold the
stores in about 2016 and that's when I
you know I thought I was going to run
the pawn shops I thought that was going
to be my life forever so when he sold
the stores I had to do something else
and my interests at the time were were
in finance lending technology math
computers Game Theory and and a lot of
that was was tied into Bitcoin so
Bitcoin brought me into the space and
from there I knew I wanted to work
full-time in the space so I kind of
scoured the internet looking for startup
jobs in 2017 and found one before bito
that I was actually at for six months
and then found bito and I moved to
paloalto to work there and I joined the
sales team and on the sales team I got
to talk to every single project in the
space and learn about their businesses
and kind of help them figure out wallet
Solutions and custody and then towards
my end of bito we had a lending desk so
basically institutions would deposit
Bitcoin and ethereum into bitgo like
sort of like a bank and then bito would
lend those funds back out and share the
interest Revenue back with the
depositors a lot similar to how a bank
operates and so I was doing lending in
the pawn shops I was doing lending at
bito and at Curve I was selling web 3
wallets to institutional participants
and so guys that were participating in
def5 but needed like a multi-sig NPC
solution so my specialty has always been
in lending and sort of more on the trafi
institutional side of crypto and that
kind of is what led me to thinking that
nft lending would be a massive
opportunity and kind of just built a
team around it and a vision and and yeah
now we're here yeah so I am really
curious you did kind of list off of few
of the things that when you were at
Benny's Pawn that you kind of loaned
against what is the
wildest physical asset that you were
able to create a value for and then take
a loan against I mean I I saw a lot of
interesting things we used to do a lot
of like Taxidermy loans so people would
come in with like hog heads and lion
heads and crazy stuff like that we saw a
couple like solid gold handguns musical
instruments old banjos from the
1920s you know old guns collectible
stuff like that gold bullion diamonds
all that col was very interesting I
think probably the most interesting
thing was somebody I was working behind
the desk and and somebody came in with a
prosthetic leg looking for a loan and it
wasn't his prosthetic leg cuz he had
both legs so we ended up passing on that
that's not a good secondary item you
can't sell that after the guy default so
yeah that that was probably the most
interesting thing I saw that's
interesting so you guys kind of had the
power in your hands then you were
holding the asset that you distributed
the loan against so if the person kind
of defaulted on their loan then you were
good to go you you had the diamond or
the gold gun or not the prosthetic leg
in this case so you didn't really ever
get caught underwater un like giving out
a bad Loan in that way that's right yeah
and in that way pawn shops are a great
business because there's very few losses
if the guy doesn't come back then a pawn
shop puts it on the retail floor and
they can sell it and recoup their
principal and profit but like you said
pawn shops what they do is they provide
custody and authentication and they they
make a loan on the item surprisingly the
Redemption rates at pawn shops are
really high so people don't like to lose
their assets and we see something
similar Within nft lending as well MH
yeah it took me a while to come around
to nfts but then when I finally bought
my first one it was such an emotional
purchase and you know when you have like
emotions attached to these things you
you don't want to let them go even if
hard times hit and you need to take a
loan against them so do you think that
there are any similarities between
offering a digital type of loaning
service for digital goods and
collectibles like arcade are there any
lessons learned that you're taking from
yours and your family's experience at
being Pond Brokers and applying them to
the platform yeah I think a lot of my
experience and history with the pawn
shops and just knowledge of collateral
lending has helped shape our vision at
arcade and how we think about things I
would say they're quite different though
pwn lending is more about having access
to liquidity if maybe someone has a lot
of assets but they don't have banking
relationships and they need a short-term
Quick Loan they go to their Community
pawn shop and take out a loan it's not
really for leverage it's usually to pay
a bill or to pay an expense that they
need some time to pay over the activity
on Arcade is mostly leverag so it's
mostly like defi power users defi guys
that have these assets have a lot of
value on chain and just want to unlock
some liquidity usually for leverage or
to buy more nfts sometimes to take into
real life we've had borrowers take out
loans for a down payment on a home
things like that but the lending that we
do actually looks more like art Finance
so there's a big art Finance world where
Bank of America lends against these high
value people pces and that's for
leverage and capital efficiency and in
that way arcade resembles the art
Finance sector quite a bit but in the
design model that we have it it looks
like a pawn shop right so I think from
digging into arcade and the the suite of
tools that it's a part of that arcade is
kind of like the sexiest platform but
non-fungible Technologies offers an
umbrella of services and arcade is one
of them there's also scaler investment
advisory firm which is an advisory firm
and there's nfte Catal which is a
business oriented Financial platform so
can you just kind of give us a brief
overview of what nfte is and maybe how
the suite of products and services
interoperate with one another yeah
sounds good I mean arcade. XYZ and now
arcade Dow is the flagship bootstrap by
nfte product so the thinking is there's
a centralized team that bootstrap and
builds the initial version of the
protocol and over time progressively
gives more power to the community which
now are the token holders the users of
the community so inft was instrumental
in building the initial versions of the
protocol and now we continue to build
but in a more decentralized distributed
way so now the community has more say in
the direction and things like that we
have thought about and that's why we
have scaler which is a fund that we
stood up to actually make loans on our
platform that's not sit up yet it's
something we're we're still actively
pursuing but basically we have enough
lending participants lending demand that
other lenders are are making loans on
the platform that's perfect maybe we can
just kind of this might seem like a
super simple eli5 type question to you
but maybe some of our listeners have
never even contemplated what nft lending
could be so can you just share a general
overview maybe give an elevator pitch of
what nft lending actually is yeah sure
maybe helpful for scale we've done
around 150 million in loan volume
through the application through the
smart contracts and again that's on
profile picture collections like Crypt
punks that that have you know a billion
dollar market cap in themselves that's
board Apes that are more like you know
online culture it's kind of like a a
pass for an online Country Club
basically you buy this nft and now
you're automatically part of this online
community on the other side there's
generative art onchain art based on code
like squiggles and fidenza and and some
one1 art from creators like be pack fous
some of these artists that have markets
creating around them and yeah so we've
done 150 million of loan volume right
now we have active borrow of about 14
million and the average duration of
those loans is about 30 days so every 30
days that 14 million gets turned over so
we're doing about 13 to 14 million a
month in loan volume and so nft lending
is basically just there's users that
have assets that are tied up in these
jpegs and art and one of the main
benefits of blockchains and protocols is
that it allows financialization and
capital efficiency in a much bigger way
so users have these assets and now
they're able to get liquidity when they
need it through permissionless protocols
so nft lending it's like any other
collateral lending borrower puts up an
asset or multiple assets and if they
don't pay back then the lender has a
claim to those assets in escrow and they
can sell them or recoup their profits
much like a pawn shop yeah and you said
that the average loan time Horizon is 30
days is this kind of a prerequisite do
you set a certain limit like 60 days 90
days tops or is 30 days just kind of how
the market has settled on how long
people generally want to loan against
their nfts it's sort of how the market
has settled that's where I think lenders
are most comfortable with these volatile
assets they like shorter dated loans
better because asset prices could change
very quickly so the shorter days allows
more flexibility for both lender and
borrower the asset price goes up borrows
can take out more liquidity but yeah the
the platform is completely open and
arbitrary so counterparties decide their
terms so the flow is usually borrow
lists an asset and then lender sees it
on the marketplace and can go and sign
for a bid to make a loan on it and then
a borrower can accept that asset or not
sometime borrowers already come with
their own terms then they list the asset
with desired terms for the loan and the
lender can come and fill that loan
automatically on the app yeah but it
doesn't seem like very many people are
interested in participating with term
set kind of loans because if you select
the has term set there's only like half
a dozen nfts that people are willing to
borrow against what's like the running
theory for why that is I think B just
likeed seeing what bids they can get
sometimes they don't really have an idea
of what the term should be or what
lenders are thinking or how they're
thinking about the market so if they're
not in a time crunch they'll just list
the asset open to terms and lenders can
come and make bids okay so this might
seem like a simple question on the
outside but I still just kind of want to
hear the inside
perspective how do you guys determine
what a blue chip nft is is this
something that like has to be around for
x amount of time does it vary by the
type of volume and liquidity associated
with the project what are kind of the
nfts that you guys like allow to be
listed based off of its status yeah so
one of the cool Parts about turning into
a down now is that we don't have to
decide that the team doesn't have to
decide what's a blue chip and what's not
so we leave it up to the community to
make a proposal for us to Whit list a
collection on the DAP basically so the
community can approve which assets they
want to lend and borrow against so yeah
it's not up to us anymore before it was
and we would look at things like loan
volume how long the Project's been
around is there activity on social like
is it a legit thing to do some filtering
to protect lenders but mainly
counterparties that use our app they're
in the weeds and they sort of know the
space they know which nfts have been
around I want to jump into or dig into
Dow a little bit but there are just a
few more technical aspects of the
platform I want to hear a little bit
more about so you kind of mentioned that
folks there's a dow that now chooses
what nfts get listed to loan against and
that that used to be your role but now
it's not so there's this element of
where your team was The Gatekeepers and
Gatekeepers can provide a little bit of
security for the users of the platform
and I'm kind of teeing you up for
talking about trm and and the know your
transaction protocol that they implement
but like what are are some of the
security measures that are in place now
that users can rely on the decentralized
nature of the platform to provide for
them you know one of the main benefits
of decentralizing is you're eliminating
single points of failure and you're kind
of future proofing the protocol of bit
the permissionless protocols open
Protocols are in such a gray area on the
regulatory front I really think the only
way protocols exist longterm is via
distributed networks like a dow and a
dow is just really how you coordinate
online users it's it's online
coordination plus Capital Management and
eventually when there's more in the
treasury and there's actual Capital to
manage the Dow will have more say in how
we disperse those funds initially though
the parameters in which the community
can vote on and have control over are
small so it's Progressive over time and
over time the community and token
holders have more power to sway the
protocol so turning into a dow I don't
think Dows have a really great rep right
now people spin up Dows and there's no
participation and there's nothing that
really happened so for us it was
important to find product Market fit
first before we thought about token
before we thought about decentralization
so we have these active users that have
done millions of volume through the
platform without any incentives and
things like that now I think to get to
that next level to get ready for
billions in volume going through the
platform it was important for us to
really have the web through ethos
eliminate single points of failure which
the team is a single point of failure
itself and really give the token holders
the direction of the protocol so that's
how we think we future approve so this
protocol can live on forever as long as
the ethereum blockchain is running and I
do want to hear a little bit more about
what know your transaction is um I heard
you bring it up in a previous podcast
and I just think it's super interesting
that there's this third party out there
that's basically providing a well I
guess it wouldn't be it is a public good
for the end users but maybe it's a
company that a project partners with and
maybe sh's Revenue with or whatnot but
can you just share a little bit about
like what kyt is and how it's making
sure that there might not be malicious
actors trying to siphon money through
the platform yeah so I actually think we
use chain link now but kind of for the
same purpose kyt is know your
transaction so we don't do any sort of
kyc on the platform it's pure
permissionless anyone with an ethereum
wallet can connect and start using the
application but we do scrub every wallet
that connects to the de to make sure
they haven't gone through elicit
activity or they're not from a
sanctioned country OAC so that's kind of
the first step we do to protect the
platform from illicit activity yeah and
so we kind of alluded to this at the
beginning of the conversation but there
has just been this narrative over the
past year like the SpongeBob Meme nfts
are dead with all the uppercase and
lowercase letters and maybe you guys
were just starting to get the platform
out the door during the tail end of the
previous bull cycle but how has lending
and borrowing been impacted in the nft
space during kind of like this rough
past year year and a half yeah I mean we
have seen more defaults definitely over
the last year I think you saw a big
downtrend in nft trade volume but you
saw kind of an uptick in nft lending and
that's because the good assets are going
to Stronger hands and those stronger
hands are using the assets for Capital
efficiency and more leverage so yeah
even though it was a downtrend in
overall trade volume and a lot of the
scams were kind of filtered out and the
projects that weren't doing anything
were filtered out you saw the good
assets continue to take out loans
against those assets I think overall the
market was in Decline but arcade's
Market Mark share of nft lending
actually grew during this bear time so
we were able to really expand our
audience during this bear and I think
that was for a couple reasons our team
is really sharp we were kind of going
firing in all cylinders on the marketing
side on the BD side we were shipping
constantly and I think we're just very
Crypton native and close to our users
and so we were able to grow our market
share that being said it is such a small
industry I think there's like five to
6,000 active while it's participating in
nft lending so it's very Niche and so
for us to be success uccessful the
universe of collateral needs to expand
like there needs to be more nfts and I
think the way it's going now looks like
nfts are this niche market it's a
Crypton native niche market that could
end up being massive and grow over time
but now looking at other things that
nfts could be like real world assets
like Rolexes or petique phips or luxury
items backed by nfts and that you know
when you start thinking about rwa assets
and how that plugs into defi that opens
up Tam quite a bit so I kind of see it
as one it's this Crypton native economy
this Niche that could grow into
something big and also there's this
other side where it's real world assets
coming on chain that actually could tap
into a more mainstream audience yeah I'm
psyched to talk about rwas in a moment
here but I do want to kind of get a
sense of who your customers are are
these like defi web 3 degens or are you
noticing maybe some institutional or
large Enterprise interest is it the same
type of individual continuously coming
back are you seeing new users come in as
well as ATT trication of previous users
it's mostly proof of concept so it's a
few users that have these assets and
have decided to experiment with taking
out loans and leverage against Real
World assets so you have these watches
and these luxury goods sitting in a
third party Escrow in a physical
Warehouse somewhere and then an nft that
is minted representing ownership of
those assets and that nft being plugged
in to Arcade to get loans against I
think it proves the concept of like a
more modern collateral lending approach
like you have generations of people that
would never step foot into a pawn shop
today probably but they all have assets
and so I definitely see a future where
there's warehouses globally that have
and store all these high value Goods
that then tap into onchain liquidity
like tokenization by itself is not so
exciting to me but tokenization with the
loan component with the onchain finance
part that's where things get interesting
because you have things like lower cost
of capital which bring rates and terms
way down for users so I do think there's
a bigger meta here that could disrupt
collateral lending as a whole but I
think it's going to take a lot of time
to figure out how to scale that piece
and and and how to make it work yeah and
do you see kind of the end user the the
nft hodler who is going to loan against
their Blue Chip nft or do you see more
of like the builders coming in and
integrating this part of into their Tech
stack into their dap and maybe
unknowingly onboarding new users like is
this a user Centric driven phenomena
that's going to help Drive the vision
that you just painted out or is it going
to be the developers and the bidders who
do it I think it's both and there's a
lot of people building in the space
right now trying to figure out where
does it scale where does it make sense
and I also think it's going to be
user-driven like we do get inbounds from
people asking hey where do I send my
assets so I can get you know loans on
chain and we get a lot of interest from
like investors that I've reached out
saying that you know it's a very simple
concept to understand and it's kind of
one of the few things in crypto that has
relevancy in the mainstream but it's not
real unless you can scale it and unless
it actually brings utility and a novel
thing to these borrowers so I think it
starts I think it starts with people
continuing to build and we have to build
it for it to exist and make sense but it
also happens via demand to get leveraged
basically yeah and so now that you guys
have shifted from a corporate model to a
dow model there's also got to be
opportunities for folks who might be
interested in participating in the Dow
as a builder and maybe earning tokens as
part of their Sweat Equity or whatnot so
what are kind of the toolkits or the
apis or maybe even the sdks that arcade
makes available for a web 3 Dev to come
in and start building on top of or
iterating on Arcade yeah so we do have
apis for lenders that want to connect
and integrate into the DAP so that they
can place like bot bids whenever a asset
gets listed like that so we have a lot
of users using the API for that specific
reason we are going to ship an SDK very
soon that makes it that much easier to
integrate for lenders for projects that
are building that want to have like a
listri collateral Plugin or do loans on
their own UI but have the arcade
protocol in the back end so I think how
we think about the protocol is we have a
front end which is arcade. XYZ the app
but we also have a protocol that's
governed by Dow that we want to get
integrated and composed with other
projects
the whole point of these protocols I
think at the end of the day for my view
is generating an alternative yield
Source plus allowing for more Capital
efficiency on the borrow side and the
yield all comes from borrowers that's
where the real yield comes for and these
apys come for yeah at the end of the day
we want the protocol to get integrated
behind all these other projects and uis
but we also want to grow participation
on our own front end our own D yep
totally so maybe you can kind of want to
describe for the listeners who might be
newer Market entrance into what exactly
goes on when there's nft lending so I
own a crypt Punk and I want to take out
a $10,000 loan against it so I'll put it
up on Arcade and once I list it that
means that anybody can basically provide
the collateral for me to borrow and my
collateral will be the nft itself so
when it's listed the nft is stored in a
smart contract and even though on paper
it's mine and I can cancel that loan or
that borrow that's out there while it's
on the marketplace and listed the nft is
not currently in my wallet is that
correct so when it's listed when you
list an asset it's still in your wallet
it's only when the loan is originated so
when either the borrower accepts or the
lender originates the loan that's when
the asset gets locked up into the escro
contract and that whole process is
governed by the smart contracts so at no
time does the team or the Dow have any
access to the collateral that's in loan
or has access to the money movement it's
all governed by the smart contracts that
we built but yeah you basically list an
asset and then once it's matched in part
of a loan that's when it gets time
locked into the smart contracts so until
I don't pay back my loan the running
Theory will be that I will pay back my
loan and I will regain access to my NF
the kind of gray area I'm trying to
figure out is do I still own the nft
because let's say Crypt punks does an
airdrop while my nft is currently being
lent out or I'm I'm loaning it out as I
take somebody else's collateral who gets
access to that airdrop is that my
airdrop does the escrow collect it as
part of as just like this is the cost of
doing business or how does that look
yeah so we we've actually built we call
them smart vaults which basically is
like a a smart wallet and so with these
vaults if you use the vaults as part of
the loan you can claim the airdrop that
comes to the nft so nobody loses on the
airdrop we're discussing a a newer
collection from the mem land economy and
meme just launched token and they have
these pretty valuable nfts and there's
tokens locked up in these nfts and so
the question is like what happens if in
the loan can I still claim the airdrop
tokens and the answer is yes so we've
built in the functionality so that
borrowers don't lose out on on the aird
drops these nfts might get that brings
up kind of an interesting scenario and
I'm not sure if you guys have dealt with
it or not but like what happens if an
airdrop goes down while somebody's nft
is in escrow and they fail to pay back
their loan and the nft then becomes
property of someone else's have you guys
ran into an issue to try to figure out
who gets the airdrop in that case it
depends on how the airdrop is designed
sometimes the borrower can claim the
airdrop either way even while the loan
is active sometimes if the bar defaults
and they didn't claim then it's going to
be the lenders at that point afterwards
so I think there has been scenarios
where A lender has actually been able to
claim a default and there's extra like
gifts like it tokens part of the part of
the nft yeah just kind of uh adds
another
add some icing on the cake if you're
participating in these kind of markets
so you mentioned um the smart vaults and
I noticed on the website digging around
that you guys have this service or tool
or product called Vulcan so I just
wanted to learn a little bit more about
what that is and how it interacts with
the smart vaults yeah so Vulcan I
believe is like a token gated platform
that projects will use to token gate
like Discord access or telegram groups
or things like that so when somebody has
a loan that is of groups that use Vulcan
they can still access those communities
and those groups so it is still like you
own the asset even when the asset is in
Loan in the eser contract and the reason
you own it is because you still have an
onchain loan note that represents the
ownership of the collateral so even as a
borrower you receive a note and that
note is basically the claim to the
collateral in in escrow now if the loan
goes overdo and you're in default that
note you can't use it to claim the asset
now it's it's it's on the lender side
basically that note is the the ownership
of the collateral cool and did you guys
brainstorm all these scenarios before
you launched arcade or is this kind of a
trial by fire and you figured out that
you might need smart vaults and things
like this after you'd been up and
running for a year or two yeah our
version one of the protocol didn't have
vaults and so we didn't allow bundling
of assets so really the vaults came
about because we had users demanding you
know users wanted to bundle multiple
assets as part of one loan we have a
borrower that has 18 punks vaulted in
one loan he basically borrowed 550,000
die and every 30 days he just pays the
interest and services the debt and keeps
that money outstanding so the Vault the
smart vaults really built for that
reason but then they allowed extra
functionality and composability you know
integrating things like Vulcan and
delegate cash which allows you know
users to delegate the utility from the
nfts in that smart wall to another
wallet yeah the smart Walts was a I
think a big technical Innovation on our
side that has done pretty well for us
yeah that's really cool you mentioned
earlier that in a way the pond broker
acts as a bank and that people can
provide collateral and take out loans
against it and so I'm wondering if
there's a similar analogy here because
arcade is a permissionless platform that
anybody with a wallet at an internet
connection assuming that they're not
malicious actors or on the ofac list can
participate but when you have someone
who is putting up 18 crypto punks that's
like quite a hefty chunk of capital at
that point when you're dealing with
we'll just call him a super user at this
point when you're dealing with super
users like that do you establish a more
of a one-onone connection or is it's
still kind of like pseudonymous
decentralized you don't know who this
person is other than their wallet yeah I
have no idea who the person is it's all
done by the borrower and the lender we
don't even know when when the loan is
going to be renewed or not this
particular borrow obviously we we know
him it's pseud Anonymous we don't know
who he is but we we know the wallet and
he's been rolling over that Vault for a
few months now so it's almost like
Perpetual Bor it's continuous borrow so
as long as there's a lender bid on an
extension but yeah we have a few you
know few big users like that that that
use the platform for Capital efficiency
wow really cool and how about the arcade
da I work in a blockchain ecosystem
where kind of like the validators for
the network are are tapped by the
creators of the chain uh there's 21
nodes so there's a lot of kind of
initial trust that needs to be there so
in this ecosystem the Neo ecosystem a
lot of the validator nodes kind of know
who each other are they've been working
together for a long time there's no like
Anon or know them by wallet address so
how about the arcade da did you guys
kind of collaborate with long-term users
and allow them to participate in the
governance process for determining the
direction of arcade or are these kind of
like folks that you handpicked first and
then you'll slowly
decentralize yeah so we did an initial
airdrop to you users of the platform
that have been doing lending and
borrowing and we wanted to reward the
early users that took a chance on our
platform and have really helped us get
to where we are and the token is purely
a governance token so it's for users
that actually use the protocol want to
have a stake in the protocol and want to
have a say in the direction the only
reason have AAL is if you actually have
participation you have a product that
people want to use and people care to
spend the gas to make these proposals
and to vote on things without particip a
and without that online coordination the
Dow was pretty worthless but I think a
lot of our holders have a long-term view
of the space and that the narrative is
collateral lending it's onchain
collateral lending and I think we're
very early days that the speculative
premium on this small sector actually
has a big narrative and so people may
want the exposure of that narrative
eventually so yeah so what we did was we
rewarded the early users that actually
use the platform in the way that we
intended users to use the platform and
yeah that that's the only way you get
participation and so over time the
participation of the token holders is
Progressive like I mentioned before the
only things that users can really vote
on today are things like adding a
whitelist collection adding a new
collection to be used as collateral if
you allow all the parameters of the
protocol and all the direction just to
be governed right at the gate by all the
community it's going to be pretty
chaotic so I think you need to train the
users and the decentralization is
Progressive and that's why we're
starting with small parameters like the
whiteless collection stuff yeah that's
really cool and so how old is the Dow I
would gather it's only a couple months
old Topps yeah we just I mean we I think
we announced it last month so it's very
new and it was a big milestone for us we
wouldn't be able to get to the Dow
unless we had millions of volume each
month and hundreds of users each month
that care about the protocol yeah it's
new it's still experimentation in my
mind Dows are experiments in online
coordination and and Capital Management
and I think we've gone about it you know
the right way on the legal side on the
on the narrative side and and yeah the
whole point is just to get participation
over time yeah I'm part of a DA that
distributes funds from a community pool
and so one of the things I've noticed
incentivizes participation even from
folks who are participating in a dow
that directly impacts the underlying
Network that they build a living off of
it's still hard to get participation for
folks in that Dow so have you I know
it's very preliminary less than a month
and a half old but have you guys begun
to explore sort of incentive strategies
or is it because people are putting so
much money where their mouth is and
they're putting their own capital and
skin into the game on the platform
there's already that inherent underlying
incentive that's there to make sure that
they do indeed participate in governance
have you seen increased participation
rates compared to other Dows well I
think it's been really cool to see we've
had two Whit list proposals that have
passed adding new collections as
collateral which I think is just really
cool initially to see active
participation like right off the gate I
think decentralization is a product in
itself and if you have users using that
product like initially that's that's a
pretty good signal and I think it just
comes down to yeah there's users that
actually use the platform and care about
the direction of a platform or they want
to add collateral because they want to
be a lender on that collateral they want
to borrow against that collateral so
this just gives them more power to say
hey arcade Whit list is collection try
and get the community to ass it in a
decentralized way that's kind of just
the the start of it that's how we
bootstrap participation initially yeah
that's cool so congrats on the going
into tens of millions of dollars in
monthly loan volumes and on having to
interacted Dow proposals it's very
disheartening when you put something
forward and none of the the voting
members participate do you see as the
platform kind of grows and more users
more collections start to get added and
more users start to come in are you guys
planning any education courses or sort
of documentation for education on why
folks might want to participate in the
arcade da or just kind of anything in
terms of Education are you guys thinking
about that right now yeah we definitely
are I mean the the thinking is how do we
get distribution for participation in
the dowo the Dow is really covering
three things it's protocol design we
have a great protocol you know
engineering team that's super solid with
smart contracts so it's protocol design
it's nft Finance I think we're
innovators and nft lending we're one of
sort of the ogs in the space we
innovated on bundling of assets on
collection wide Loan offers and the
third one is coordination so online
coordination and Capital Management so I
think with those three things we're set
up well to capture this today is a small
sector that has I think around 100
million in outstanding debt overall
against nfts of which we have 13 14
million of that debt I think in four or
five years it's that number is going to
be in the billions and so the Dow might
look small today but if things go well
and the network gets adopted and more
assets come on chain which we all think
is sort of inevitable then I think the
Dow is positioned well to actually have
a meaningful impact you know in how this
sector plays out yeah and you mentioned
earlier in terms of real world assets
you're talking luxury goods I was just
in Hong Kong a couple weeks ago
listening to legislators talk and they
were hyped up on like treasury bills as
real world assets on chain so we're
starting to hear this emerging Narrative
of rwas and it's seeming that there's
going to be a wide variety that can be
brought on chain so from the whole rwa
narrative kind of emerging is arcade
really focusing on luxury goods or are
there going to be other opportunities to
kind of add these other real world
assets that can be borrowed and lent
against I think as it relates to rwa
we're more focused on the goods piece of
it instead of like the commercial yields
or commercial paper like like bonds
we're seeing tvl grow tremendously on on
chain bonds and rwa in that way like
Maple and goldfinch and all these other
protocols I don't know how interesting
that becomes in a lower rate environment
where bonds are not yielding 5% and
there's better yields in the Crypton
native economy so it'll be interesting
to see how that plays out with rates
coming down are cooling off a bit but
yeah we're more focused on the good side
of it where a good like a watch or
luxury item or Diamond can be stored in
a physical location maybe in a
centralized way maybe in a decentralized
way but then Taps into this onchain
liquidity in a permissionless way so
that's the future where we're more
focused on but I'd say we're still
mainly focus on the Crypton native side
of things so that's still the pfps it's
still the Gen art it's still the digital
art because even though that's a small
Niche today it's going to grow but we're
also keeping tabs on this other
developing Circle which is rwa Goods
coming on chain no that's really cool
this ring that I'm wearing has the same
chip that's in your passport and it can
be bound to a wallet on chain so merging
of rwas and and the luxury good markets
that you're looking into I mean this
just seems like it's going to be here
whether we like it or not in the next
few years and like big brands are going
to be looking to bring themselves on
chain and I think it'll be really
interesting to see where arcade is
poised to be able to kind of attract
that sort of growth and to provide
another Avenue for folks to leverage
Capital that they might have in a luxury
good are you just kind of planning for
this vertical are you having preliminary
conversations with folks are you having
conversations with these Clearing Houses
where is that at right now I know you
like blatantly said that you're focusing
more on pfps and digital art right now
but I'm super curious to hear what that
looks like today yeah I mean we're we're
focusing on on the digital native stuff
on the D5 stuff but I think as it
relates to the rwa on the good side it
looks more more like a web two business
and so we're having conversations with
like guys like pawn shops wholesalers
that have a lot of inventory that they
might want to you know store somewhere
and and get liquidity on it could be
jewelry stores it could be high net
worth individuals that have assess
laying around so I I think it's mostly
ideation phase I think there's a lot of
appetite on the investor side to figure
out how this rwa stuff scales in a
meaningful way I don't think anybody has
really figured it out yet it could just
be a really good narrative right now
without really the scale happening so
that's what we're looking for now I
think the narrative is there we're
trying to find out where is it real
where is the scale who can we talk to
where we can sort of abstract away all
the crypto stuff and all the wallet
stuff and make it more about bringing
cost down for borrow having a cheaper
cost of capital making the experience
better somehow for a web 2 user so it's
all those things that would make it more
real to figure out an 8 first I think
and it's going to take some time so I
think we've proved an early concept with
these watch loans and it got a lot of
interest and people open people's eyes
to what it could be and now it's
figuring out you know how do we make it
real yeah very cool so I kind of want to
in the final portion of the conversation
I kind of want to zoom back out a little
bit and maybe focus on technology and
Trends so you were just speaking about
the narrative and how important it is to
be able to ride that wave and a lot of
these major nft projects that have wild
valuations like Crypt punks and Bor apes
and all these other projects they're all
basically born on ethereum so what
network or networks does arcade support
what networks are on your radar how do
you guys go about choosing which ones to
implement into the platform yeah so
right now we're just on eth maet and the
reason is because that's where all the
high value nfts are today it's on eth
made net that's also where all the
liquidity is is coordinated so I think
we've looked at adding other chains like
salana and supporting l2s like polygon
or optimism or even base but there's not
meaningful amounts of value in terms of
nfts on those chains yet now as it
relates to rwa Goods I don't see why rwa
Goods really need to be on eth Main net
I don't think those need to be Bare
Assets so maybe RW make more sense on an
L2 but as it relates to like digital
native arts or collections for now it's
it's mostly on ethereum May note yeah
and so you mention like the size of just
one user's portfolio is 18 Crypt punks
we're talking millions of dollars there
and now that we're getting into this
place where the nft projects that have
survived the past two years there might
be a there there so maybe it's not just
your Anon web 3 user who is going to
start leveraging arcade but maybe even
hedge funds or some trafi institutions
are there folks that are reaching out to
you guys to learn more about the space
and what you're building from like a
hedge fund kind of trafi fund
perspective or are they not here yet
yeah it's a good question I mean I think
we already have you know smaller hedge
funds funds using the app to get yield
so they're lenders on on certain
Collections and it really comes down to
you know arcade is a alternative yield
Source on chain so the average APR on
the platform right now is about 19% and
at ltvs that are somewhere around you
know anywhere between 40% to 80% LTV on
assets that always have a bid you know
these lenders are realizing that this is
yield they want to capture and these are
assets they want to risk their capital
on and I think it comes down to
providing like composable Risk adjusted
yield so if people see 19% APR with
defaults that are somewhat low 8% on
overall platform that interests them but
I think it needs to be for really trfi
to to get interested there needs to be a
little bit more scale so right now now
the whole Space is 100 million in debt I
think there needs to be a couple billion
in debt for the institutions really to
get interested and and integrated so how
do we get to more than just 100 million
outstanding in debt what does that look
like does that just look like a bull
market returning does that look like
arcade going out and doing BD and
onboarding new folks does that look like
competition coming to the space do you
have kind of like a strategy or an idea
of how this is going to kind of build
out over the next few years yeah I mean
of course we have thoughts and we sort
of have to be fortune tellers a bit to
to see what the future is going to look
like to build anything in the space you
kind of have to foresee the future a
little bit but yeah right now the space
is about 5 six billion in lendable
assets so I think that it needs to grow
the universe of collateral needs to
expand and we can all wait for the
market to come back and that would be
great if the market did and everything
to next but you know I don't know if
that's going to happen so we're we're
trying to think of our part how to get
more assets on chain and and I think
another component here is like education
also it's still a billion doll market
today at nfts and there's a lot of
people that don't know about nft lending
even though the use cases are different
it's less like a pawn shop of people
needing the cash and it's more about
trading and leverage but even so there
there's still room to grow and at the
size today but the universe of
collateral needs to expand and I don't
know if that looks like more native
digital like bfp collections or just
more digital IP being tied into an nft
somehow or it's more enabling on the rwa
side and getting more of these luxury
goods on chain and I think it's a bit of
both interesting I'm curious to hear if
nft fractionalization is kind of a
competitor to what you guys are building
and offering for these power users who
want to participate in Define maybe add
a little bit of Leverage are you losing
any market share with fractionalization
of nfts or because we're talking about
fractionalization of nfts we might not
be dealing with the same type of
clientele or customer yeah I don't
really have my head wrapped well around
fractionalization I I don't see much
relevancy there as it relates to to what
we do like the borrowers that are using
loans on our platform they don't want to
fractionalize their nfts they want to
keep them whole and just get leverage on
them and their collectors a lot of times
so they like keeping their assets intact
in my opinion I do think
fractionalization has a place in the
space and I think you can do a lot of
interesting things with that but it's
not something we're actively looking at
right now yeah cool how about like from
a philosophical perspective cuz like all
in nft is really is is a hash on a chain
and metadata that includes a URL for the
image so we've seen like if AWS goes
down then maybe some images will also go
down for the time being how are we going
to go about kind of making distributed
storage networks like ipfs or filecoin
or storj or swarm or anything like this
become the norm for nfts and is there a
role that arcade or the types of power
users that arcade has to kind of push
that narrative to make it more of a
mainstream kind of acceptance yeah it's
an interesting point you know you have
collections like crypto punks they're
all on chain the images are on chain as
well but I think that's only possible
because of how small it's like a 36-bit
image I actually don't think it's too
important that the image itself is
stored on a centralized server I think
the valuable part is that the token
that's the provenance I think it's good
for the space in general to start moving
towards decentralized storage but you
know for the assets that we deal with
though I think it is important and it is
relevant discussion topic I think the
value is more the token itself anyways
and the connection that it has with the
issuer and the Creator less so about the
actual image of the token perfect so
kind of wrapping up you guys just
achieved a major step towards
decentralization with creating the Dow
and it's generally unfair to work in a
web 3 space because once you deliver
something major people are already
asking for what's the next big thing and
when's it going to be launched but what
are some of the kind of next things that
are on arcade's road map what are you
guys really excited about doubling down
and and finishing up on the rest of the
year and maybe uh looking forward to to
kicking off 2024 in the right way yeah I
think we're super excited to keep
building out on the peer-to-peer side
nft lending I I think peer-to-peer even
though it's not as scalable as like a
peerto pool solution will always have a
place because nfts can be so many
different types of assets and a per to
pure model is the only way to really
capture the broad lender appetite some
lenders will lend against punks others
don't want to lend against punks some
will lend against Bard Apes others don't
want to L against board Apes so I think
as it relates to peer-to-peer we're
going to continue building out the most
robust kind of experience for peerto
peer but we're also looking to build out
peer toool models which is a little bit
more scalable on the liquidity side so
somebody withh holding like $100 of
ethereum can deposit into the arcade
protocol to start earning interest on
Punk yield say so I think it's making it
easier for the more common user not the
D5 power user to start using the app to
participate in some of the the yield and
the interest and also on the borrow side
it's just making things more Capital
efficient and better uax so in my mind
you know this year is about Capital
efficiency and yield generation and
growing participation in the Dow making
sure this is a successful you know
online coordination I've been on the
record saying it's now November 2023
I've been on the record saying that I
think we're at the beginning of a bull
market so so I kind of want to end on
this question what is kind of the
biggest it could either be negative or
positive takeaway that you took from
building in this space over the past two
years and building in a bare market and
building during downtimes when price go
down and sentiment is high what's kind
of one of the biggest takeaway that you
took it could either be negative or
positive I think we've learned how to
stay calm during chaotic times and just
keep our heads down and do the few
things that we know how to do and that's
you know execute ship and and and build
product and a lot of the team has been
in the space since you know since 2017
and earlier so we've gone through a few
bare markets so even though this one has
been rough but we've been able to keep
momentum with the team and the team is
still passionate about what they're
building so yeah I think it's weathering
the storm staying confident in our
conviction and and what we're building
who are you interested in hearing from
and if folks want to reach out to you or
find out more about Arcade where can
they do so yeah I'm interested to talk
to everyone so if any one wants to reach
out and talk you know we're very active
in the space we like to talk to all
sorts of projects people building users
and we have a pretty active Discord you
can always find me in there and then I'm
on Twitter at Stanley corrupt kind of a
weird name but I've had it since the
last 12 years probably yeah at Stanley
TR on X awesome Gabe thanks so much for
coming to join the smart economy podcast
to talk about nft lending and arcade it
was a great conversation this is the
second project in the years I've been in
the space that I've heard is doing nft
lending so it was really cool to be able
to pick your brain and to hear about
your conviction and and where the space
is going I really appreciate your time
awesome thanks for the great question s
appreciate
it